---
title: 'Uphill Conf 2018'
date: '2018-05-27T16:34:35.000Z'
tags: ['Common']
template: 'post'
---

The past years I fully focused on backend development. In my current job as a
Full Stack Software Engineer I'm more and more interested in frontend
development as well. I was very excited to attend my first frontend conference
last month, the [Uphill Conf](https://uphillconf.com/) on top of the beautiful
Mount Gurten in Bern. It was a fantastic day. The line up was superb and the
organizers did a very good job. Thank you a lot!

I don't want to say too much about the conference. I just want to share my two
favorite talks from the conference. I copied the abstracts and the videos from
the official website. Enjoy and hopefully see you next year.

## Building a Performant Web Application in 2018

Speaker: [Jem Young](https://twitter.com/jemyoung)

It’s 2018 and with the explosion of people joining the internet for the first
time, building a performant application is more crucial than ever before.
Unfortunately with all the new tools, libraries, and measurements, it’s
difficult to even know where to start when it comes to building an application
from scratch. In this talk, we’re going to cover the steps and methodologies
that the modern web developer should keep in mind when crafting code. From
choosing the right libraries and understanding application architecture, all the
way to debugging common performance issues, we’re going to learn how to build a
modern, production ready web application.

<iframe width="100%" height="355" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cd8pyX-droM" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Two fundamental abstractions

Speaker: [Andre Staltz](https://twitter.com/andrestaltz)

JavaScript provides primitive types and means of processing those. However,
those are not enough. Real data must somehow come into the program and data must
somehow leave the program, for it to become useful to us. In this talk, we will
see how two abstractions, `() => T` and `T => ()`, are essential for data flow
and to build up other abstractions, such as Iterator, Iterable, Observable,
Scheduling, and others.

<iframe width="100%" height="355" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fdol03pcvMA" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
